#1767: Add release notes for v2.22.0 (#1773)
AbsaOSS/enceladus: _posts/2021-04-23-release-2.22.0.md

---
layout: default
title: Release v2.22.0
tags: ["v2.22.0", "changelog"]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

As of 23/04 2021 the new version 2.22.0 is out
<!--more-->

## Standardization Improvements

- [#1753]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1753) Add an option to ignore trailing and leading white spaces on CSV read

## Conformance Improvements

- [#1662]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1662) `MappingConformanceRule` now allows having multiple output columns from mapping tables. The implementations are done for Broadcast and GroupExplode

## Menas Improvements

> - [#1702]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1702) Dataset properties essentiality level Mandatory enhanced with parameter allowRun. (If set to true SparkJobs task will still execute even if the property is not defined. Menas UI configuration validation will fail though.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [#1702]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1702) Dataset properties essentiality level Mandatory enhanced with parameter `allowRun`. (If set to true SparkJobs task will still execute even if the property is not defined. Menas UI configuration validation will fail though.)
```

## Helper Scripts Improvements

> - [#1759]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1759) Have a more strict DRA setup in bash helper scripts. Differentiate between spark job run-time parameters for DRA and non-DRA setup and if DRA set up is enabled or defaulted, ignore the non-DRA number of executors, memory and cores.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [#1759]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1759) Have a more strict DRA setup in bash helper scripts. Differentiate between spark job run-time parameters for DRA and non-DRA setup and if DRA set up is enabled or default, ignore the non-DRA number of executors, memory and cores.
```

Author: ```suggestion
- [#1759]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1759) Having a more strict DRA setup in_Helper scripts_. Differentiating between spark job run-time parameters for DRA and non-DRA setup. If DRA is explicitly enabled or set to `true` in default, ignores the non-DRA number of executors, memory and cores.
```

## Project Testing

> - [#1625]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1625) Now it is possible to populate test data into HDFS and MongoDB by bash scripts. Data are part of the codebase. It is possible to run tests from codebase with test JSONs using Hermes 0.3.1+

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [#1625]({{ site.github.issues_url }}/1625) Now it is possible to populate test data into HDFS and MongoDB by bash scripts, since the data is part of the codebase. It is possible to run tests from codebase with test JSONs using Hermes 0.3.1+
```

Author: Changed the suggestion to _data are_ - the customary way in computer science.

## New Helper Scripts Configuration

Add/Change in `enceladus_env.sh`/`_enceladus_env.cmd` file of your deployment.

* `STD_DEFAULT_DRA_EXECUTOR_MEMORY` - default value for [`DRA_EXECUTOR_MEMORY`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/usage/run#command-line-options) parameter in _Standardization_ and combined _Standardization&Conformance_ jobs.
* `STD_DEFAULT_DRA_EXECUTOR_CORES` - default value for [`DRA_EXECUTOR_CORES`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/usage/run#command-line-options) parameter in _Standardization_ and combined _Standardization&Conformance_ jobs.
* `CONF_DEFAULT_DRA_EXECUTOR_MEMORY` - default value for [`DRA_EXECUTOR_MEMORY`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/usage/run#command-line-options) parameter in _Conformance_ jobs.
* `CONF_DEFAULT_DRA_EXECUTOR_CORES` - default value for [`DRA_EXECUTOR_CORES`]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/usage/run#command-line-options) parameter in _Conformance_ jobs.
* `STD_DEFAULT_DRA_ENABLED` - set to `true`, to enable DRA as default for _Standardization_ and combined _Standardization&Conformance_ jobs. **Recommended.**

> * `CONF_DEFAULT_DRA_ENABLED` - set to `tru`e, to enable DRA as default for _Conformance_ jobs. **Recommended.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `CONF_DEFAULT_DRA_ENABLED` - set to `true`, to enable DRA as default for _Conformance_ jobs. **Recommended.**
```
